[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>DAVID WILCOCK:
I'm David Wilcock,
and welcome to "Disclosure."
I've got a nice safe place
here where we can talk.
I'm going to be telling you
some very interesting stuff
through the guise of
this interview with one
of the real amazing, pioneering
truth-seekers in our field,
none other than Andrew
Collins, a legend who
has written many books and is
really breaking new ground.
Now, it should be
obvious to you,
if you have spent time
looking into the truth arena,
that the American
government has had
its financial system outsourced
to the Federal Reserve, which
is actually a private
consortium of bankers.
We have weird Egyptian symbolism
on the United States dollar
with the pyramid that has the
eye on top, the all-seeing eye,
clearly suggesting that there
is some sort of fascination
with ancient mystery traditions
and ancient civilizations,
specifically Egypt, on
behalf of the people
who are printing our money.
Well, how far does this go?
In some of my episodes on
"Wisdom Teachings" that I talk
about "Disclosure" in,
I've gone into great detail
about the so-called
Illuminati and how
they are advertising essentially
Luciferian symbolism out there.
But where does this come from?
Is it possible that the most
powerful people on Earth
do have some sort
of secret cult that
relates back to
ancient traditions
and ancient civilizations?
Well, we start really drilling
into this in this interview
with Andrew Collins.
And it isn't until
the second interview
that's coming up
later in our series
that I really hit him with
some directly confrontational
questions.
But bear in mind that based on
insiders who I've spoken to,
the so-called Illuminati
do trace themselves back
as the descendants of apparent
extraterrestrial beings who
came here to Earth calling
themselves the Watchers.
And these Watchers
and their stories
are preserved in an ancient
apocryphal gospel that
was not included
in the Bible but is
as old as the Book of Genesis
known as the Book of Enoch.
So there's some very
fascinating stuff here,
because as we drill into
the story the Watchers,
we're actually
drilling into what
the most powerful
people on Earth
believe themselves to
be the descendants of.
So there's a lot of
very interesting things
to explore coming up in this
interview with Andrew Collins.
I do rough him up a little bit
at the beginning just for fun.
He's an English guy.
He can handle it.
He's got a wry sense of humor.
So check it out and have fun.
Here we go.
All right, Andrew Collins.
It's great to have you here.
You are a true
legend in this field.
You probably generated
so many tin-foil hats
that you could have your own
spot in the periodic table
of the elements.
>>ANDREW COLLINS: That's
very kind of you to say so.
>>DAVID: Look, you've been
doing this for a long time.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
>>DAVID: And you're one of the
names that has just been around
forever.
>>COLLINS: Thank you.
>>DAVID: You've investigated
so many different fascinating
subjects that are out-of-the-box
thinking, that break barriers,
that are redefining what we
think we know in light of new
information.
Do you feel that the
nature of science
is to follow the
trail of evidence?
>>COLLINS: I think science
itself is something which only
really gets the full picture
after people like ourselves
investigate it, put it out into
the collective consciousness.
And then it's picked up in a way
which is probably transformed
into something that's
more academic, scholarly,
and very often, you won't
even get credit for it.
But I see that that is
the way that it works.
It's been doing that for
hundreds of years, maybe even
thousands.
And I think that there is almost
like a tier of progress with it
and that I'm somewhere there.
I'm not a scholar.
I'm not an academic.
I wouldn't claim to be.
I'm certainly not a scientist.
I mean, my background is
journalism, and I'm a writer.
I get my ideas
out through books.
And whoever takes
them up takes them up.
If that's an academic,
that's great.
If it's just the general public
taking it on, well, brilliant.
I mean, I've done my part.
I think that's about as
far as I can take it.
>>DAVID: But as far as
what you are writing
about as a journalist,
you're covering
things that are being done by
scientists that are breaking
new ground in science.
>>COLLINS: They are.
But because I'm not a
scholar or an academic,
I can say what I like.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>COLLINS: And
people like myself
or Graham Hancock can
seize these things
and say exactly what's going on.
We don't have to worry
about peer review.
We don't have to worry about
how the academic world is going
to react or accept what we
say because that's exactly
the way of journalism,
true journalism, is about.
You print the truth, and people
either like it or they don't.
And obviously, with the
number of books I've done,
the reaction has been horrendous
from the point of view
of the scholars and whatever.
And then you suddenly
find that they themselves
have taken on bolder ideas
and are running with them
in ways which people
who see it, who
know that you've written about
these subjects, can't believe.
I mean, like the discovery
of a huge, great cave system
beneath the pyramids of Giza--
>>DAVID: Right.
>>COLLINS: --which I achieved
with colleagues in 2008.
Once this had occurred and
been in the caves four times,
I had to bring it to the
notice of the authorities.
I went to see the guy
in charge of the Supreme
Council of Antiquities in
Egypt, Dr. Zahi Hawass,
and sat down with him.
And he denied that
these caves existed,
even though I was giving
him photographs to show him,
and saying, look,
we know everything
about the Giza Plateau.
You can't make discoveries.
Only we can, and
we know everything.
And there's no caves there.
Within six months,
he was recording
a series called "Chasing
Mummies," where he was actually
inside those caves saying it's
the most incredible experience
he'd ever had at Giza.
This is massive.
This is a whole
cave complex that
actually flows all the
way beneath the Plateau
and probably goes beneath
the second pyramid, which
is the highest point
on the Plateau.
And for some reason, nobody
knew that it was there.
And it's within the shadow
of the Great Pyramid,
and nobody had recognized
the fact it was there.
And this was five
years of research,
trying to pin down the
exact location going
from old journals and accounts
that were nearly 200 years old
and realizing that a few
explorers had actually managed
to find the entrance into this
cave system in the early part
of the 19th century.
And then suddenly nothing.
>>DAVID: Are you
saying these are
the results of natural
underwater aquifers,
or is it more of
carved passageways?
>>COLLINS: Well,
they're certainly
natural in origin, almost
certainly carved out
by water at a very great age,
perhaps tens of thousands,
hundreds of thousands,
maybe millions of years ago.
However, they would seem to have
been enhanced by human hands.
There are certain sort
of very primitive marks,
symbolic forms,
within them, which
clearly shows the human action.
Also, certainly the
early part of them
would seem to have been used
as some kind of necropolis
for birds.
There was obviously some
kind of god form or goddess
form associated with the
entrance area, which is now
known as the Tomb of the Birds.
And evidence has
been found there
of the internment of birds.
I mean, this was reported
back in the mid-19th century.
One report actually talks about
finding these bird mummies
and things and removing them.
And that, along with
the other journal
accounts from the early
part of the 19th century,
made us realize that there was
something there that everybody
else had missed and
was certainly not
to be found in any academic
paper or book or anything that
had been written
by anybody before.
And at the end of
that five-year search,
we found the entrance into the
cave system and explored it.
I mean, it was full
of bats, by the way.
And it's a start.
We explored it to
a certain distance.
We know they got further.
And it's very possible
that the stories
of the existence of these caves
almost certainly influenced
the fact that the pyramids
were actually constructed
where they were on the Plateau.
Because the ancient
name of Giza is
Rostau, which means,
basically, the entrance
into underground
chambers or caves
or something, which
suggests that there
was a connection between
the actual placement
of the whole pyramid field there
and the existence of the caves.
And that the caves were seen
as like some kind of entrance
into the so-called Duat, the
otherworldly or underworld
environment that the
ancient Egyptians believed
that the soul had
to pass through
before it could rise up into
the afterlife amongst the stars.
And that this was like a
symbolic representation
of the Duat.
>>DAVID: So then Zahi Hawass
ends up doing documentaries
on this and never
gave you guys credit
for having rediscovered them.
>>COLLINS: Not really,
although he did start
calling them Collins' Caves,
which is a title which stuck.
So I like the idea.
But he inadvertently named
them after myself anyway,
so that was some kind of credit
for having discovered them.
But I mean, I'm not worried
because Zahi Hawass,
he was the boss of the Supreme
Council of Antiquities.
It was his job to deny
that they existed.
And when I actually went to
interview him to give him
this information, and
he was denying it,
it was almost farcical.
It was like a joke.
And at one point, it
almost looked as if there
was a smile on his face.
And one of my
colleagues was there
that just burst into
laughter because they
thought it was a joke.
And in a way, it is a joke.
And I think that, at that
point, I got the joke.
And the joke is that
he had to say this,
because there is no way that
amateurs like myself could
make those type of discoveries.
This is the problem.
People like me, in
theory, should not
make discoveries like this.
>>DAVID: It's like the
Wright brothers cooking up
the airplane in the garage.
>>COLLINS: But I
understand this,
and I haven't got
a problem with it.
But although I am very glad
that a film crew actually filmed
Zahi Hawass going into these
caves for the first time
and experience them
for the first time
and to record his
reaction to going in them.
And this was live.
This was not edited in theory.
And so it's good that
once he was inside them,
he saw how marvelous these were
and how incredible a discovery
it actually was.
So it was almost like
I was vindicated.
So I'm very happy
with that really.
>>DAVID: That's great.
>>COLLINS: And so this
is the sort of area,
this is the type of
work which I like.
And I put it out there, and
if I get credit for it, great.
If I don't, well, I
understand the system.
>>DAVID: So for people
who are entrenched
in mainstream ideology,
mainstream beliefs,
they have bought
this belief that all
of Egyptian civilization starts
in the conventionally-accepted
archaeological terms.
Now we have Gobekli Tepe,
and you have written
an incredible book on that.
It just seems like
you keep leapfrogging
and going beyond what
you already had done.
How does Gobekli Tepe-- first
of all, what is Gobekli Tepe?
And how have those
discoveries helped
to add potential weight
to the academic argument
that Egypt could be a
lot older of a culture
than we have now ascribed
its significance to be?
>>COLLINS: Well,
in the early 1990s,
Dr. Robert Schoch
of Boston University
looked at the weathering of
the Sphinx monument, which
sits on the eastern edge
of the Giza Plateau,
and also the enclosure
walls around it
and realized that the weathering
could not have been done
by wind erosion, as had
been popularly believed up
to that point by Egyptologists.
But almost certainly had been
caused by water, precipitation,
i.e.
rain, coming down,
running along the Plateau,
and going into the
enclosures and over the body
of the Sphinx.
>>DAVID: Yeah, you have these
smooth, sensuous curves.
>>COLLINS: Absolutely.
And I mean, it's obvious.
If you look at it, it
looks like rain weathering
and water weathering.
>>DAVID: And yet
yesterday, I looked up
on Wikipedia Orion
correlation theory, which
is the belief that the
belt stars of Orion
correspond to the Giza Plateau
and the three pyramids.
And it says right on Wikipedia,
as if it's totally credible,
that that theory
of water weathering
has been widely debunked
and that it obviously
is the result of
things like the wind.
>>COLLINS: Well, absolutely.
But I mean, the problem there
is that Wikipedia is essentially
controlled by people
who wish to remain
within the orthodoxy of
the conventional thinking
and that any new ideas and
ideologies that are generally
put within it are
removed very quickly.
I mean, this happens on many
different subjects and areas
of science.
There's almost like
a sort of cabal,
if you like, that is forever
watching certain pages
on Wikipedia and removing
anything that they don't like,
not because it's
wrong, but because they
don't like it because it's
against their own paradigm
basically.
But coming back to the ideas
of the civilization being
much older than what we
knew is that Dr. Schoch
tried to estimate when
that amount of rain
would have fallen in
the area of the Nile.
And he went back,
maybe, 5,000, 6.000 BC.
Other assessments would
suggest that it goes back
to as early as 10,500 BC.
And there's a lot of
speculation about that.
I mean, there's no actual date
that we can sort of pull out
of an envelope and say.
But it's certainly older.
I'm pretty certain of that.
But myself and various other
ancient mystery writers
ran with this story
back in the 1990s,
and it was going out
on a leg because there
was no real evidence of
civilization being that old,
other than myths and
legends, speculation, perhaps
even forerunners of
ourselves that had written
about these sort of subjects.
But then in my
own area, I'd been
writing about the
origins of civilization
and looking into the
Hebrew legends relating
to the Garden of Eden
being an actual location,
the "terrestrial
Paradise," which it does
seem to have been.
And it seems to
have been located
in the area of Eastern Anatolia,
what is modern Asiatic Turkey.
And the "four
rivers of Paradise"
were said to have taken their
rise from the Garden of Eden.
Well, two of those
rivers are easily
identified as the Euphrates and
the Tigris, and both of those
rise in the area
that we're talking
about here in Eastern Anatolia.
And this same area is the
cradle of civilization.
A number of the firsts for
humanity all occurred here.
I mean, everything
from agriculture,
to animal husbandry,
to metallurgy,
to the first
structured buildings,
even down to the first
beer and the first wine
were all thought to have
originated from this area.
And quite clearly,
something fundamental
was happening, something
was changing here, probably
around 9,000 BC, a time
that is known to scientists
as the Neolithic
Revolution, a time
which was seen as a point of
change within the climate.
The climate warmed.
You had this revolution in
agriculture and other things.
And this eventually led to
the rise of civilization.
Well, I was looking at
the legends connected
with the Garden of Eden and
terrestrial Paradise in Hebrew
myths and what this suggests--
>>DAVID: And do you think you
found the other two rivers?
>>COLLINS: The other two rivers
are-- there's more debate,
but one of them is almost
certainly the Araxes River,
also known as the Aras,
which flows eastwards
from the same area of eastern
Anatolia into the Caspian Sea.
The fourth river-- there is
more of a debate over that--
but the best evidence seems
to be that it's the Great Zab
River, which, again, flows
from eastern Anatolia
and actually empties
into the Tigris in Iraq.
And then, obviously,
the two become one.
But it's a big river
in its own right.
So as I said, all of
them, all four of them,
raise within a sort of
50 to 100-mile area,
which is pretty
close considering
the rest of the world.
You know what I mean?
But you've also got, in this
very same area, the myths
relating to these
wisdom-bringers, these angels
known as Watchers in a text
known as the Book of Enoch.
They're mentioned in other
early Hebrews texts as well.
And what is said is
that they guarded
the Garden of Righteousness
or the Garden of Eden.
In other words, they
were connected with it.
>>DAVID: The Watchers do.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
And that they lived in
Paradise, basically,
which obviously
you could conceive
as being somewhere in the sky.
But I began to realize
that this was probably
referring to a physical location
somewhere in Eastern Anatolia.
And it was said that the
Watchers not only descended
amongst mortal-kind, i.e.
ourselves, and took
wives for themselves
who produced giant
offspring, who
are referred to in
the text as Nephilim,
but that they also revealed
the arts and sciences of heaven
to their mortal wives
and whoever else I
suppose they were talking to.
And these arts and
sciences of Heaven
correspond pretty well to
the firsts for humanity
that all took place in the
area of Eastern Anatolia.
And so what I suggested
is that the Watchers,
these human angels who
are described as extremely
tall with quite pale
skin, pale hair,
elongated faces,
which are described
as like vipers or snakes on
occasions, with these piercing
eyes, which are eyes that
are said to sort of like
radiate out almost like the
sun, that they were actually
a memory of some
kind of elite that
had come into the area
of Eastern Anatolia
and taken control on the
development of humanity
in this region.
And the way that
they were remembered
by the people who
lived in this region
end up becoming the myths
and legends relating
to the Watchers, the
angels, which, by the way,
those that gave this
wisdom to humanity
were the ones that
became the rebels.
These were the rebel angels.
But also they became
the fallen angels,
because it was
believed that they'd
fallen from grace basically.
>>DAVID: Right.
So you have 200 of them
in the Book of Enoch.
>>COLLINS: That's right.
200, indeed.
>>DAVID: And then
their offspring
start to become
cannibals, right?
They start eating people.
>>COLLINS: That's what it says.
And I mean, what the reality
of that is, who knows?
But what's said is the
offspring, these Nephilim,
were rounded up and all
killed, many of them
still as babies
apparently as well,
and that their
Watcher parents were
sort of forced to watch
this first infanticide
of human history.
And the rebel Watchers were
rounded up and incarcerated.
And this was something
that was allegedly
witnessed by the writer
of the Book of Enoch,
Enoch himself, although
it's unlikely to have
been penned by this character
of biblical history.
And that that's why we know
this story, because Enoch
recorded the events down in the
book that his name bears today.
And although we can
see these as myths,
they are very similar
to other myths that
exist in the same
region, for instance,
to do with the Anunnaki,
the gods of heaven and earth
in Sumerian and Babylonian
tradition, which obviously
relates to the country of
Iraq more specifically.
And it's said that the Anunnaki
also have these piercing
eyes like snakes.
They are also described as
very serpentine in nature.
And the texts say that
they lived originally
on this holy mound
known as Duku, the Duku,
and that the Duku mound was
situated on a sacred mountain
called Kharsag.
And that it was
from this position
that they gave to humanity
the first sheep and grain.
Well, quite clearly,
the sheep is a reference
to animal husbandry,
which we know
took place in Eastern Anatolia.
And the grain clearly
is a reference
to the foundations
of agriculture
in the very same area.
And it's said that the
Anunnaki lived on Kharsag,
and that eventually
they help humanity
create the first cities.
They help them
irrigate the land,
create the first irrigation
channels, and things like this.
And clearly, they are seen as
semi-divine at least figures,
but who somehow interact
with mortal-kind, again,
to give them the knowledge
to found civilization.
And there are other accounts
from Persia, ancient Iran
as well, that talk about the
Immortals doing similar things.
So similar legends coming
from exactly the same area.
And I ran with all these
ideas in a book called
"From the Ashes of Angels,"
which was published originally
in 1996, and basically saying
that something big went on
in this area.
We don't know exactly
who these people were.
where they came from.
But they clearly came from
the outside into this region
and took over the show.
They were an elite.
They either worked
with or controlled
the local population.
And that from this
connection, this trafficking
between these two different
types of human, civilization
eventually arose.
Well, what I didn't
know at this time
is that Gobekli Tepe had
just been discovered.
And this was something that
would not be made public
until the year 2000.
And what Gobekli
Tepe is, essentially,
is if you can imagine
Stonehenge in England.
If you then multiply that
by, let's say, 20 times
and then cover the stones in
beautiful carvings of animals
and make them
human-like in appearance
with T-shaped
terminations at the top,
sort of like a big letter T,
and create these enclosures
around them and put
them on a mountaintop
in Southeast Anatolia, and then
bury them 10,000 years ago.
Because it seems as if
that these structures go
back probably to around
11 and 1/2 thousand years
when they would seem to
have first been erected.
>>DAVID: And that's not
being disputed by anybody
with any credibility.
>>COLLINS: No.
I mean, the important
thing about Gobekli Tepe
is the fact that it was buried
around 10,000 years ago.
The dates, obviously,
are before this.
As I say, they go back
probably to 9,500 BC.
But whereas there are many
other megalithic sites
around the world which
could date to this age,
they've not been covered up.
They've not been preserved
like a time capsule.
That's the big difference
with Gobekli Tepe,
because here it's untouched.
So what the archaeologists
are revealing
from beneath this
layer cake of activity
is something that's absolutely
unique because it's pristine.
These enclosures, these
megalithic monuments,
which, as I said, you could
liken to Stonehenge in England
from a much later
date, are something
which tell us that
this what they
call monumental architecture
was being constructed
as early as 9,500 BC.
And this is the
type of time frame
that some people associate
the age of the Sphinx.
>>DAVID: Sure.
>>COLLINS: So those like
myself and Dr. Robert Schoch
and Graham Hancock and
various other people who
were suggesting that
civilization was much older
and who may have been
poo-pooed at the time over this
are now being proved correct.
And even just in
the last year or so,
the science magazine
"New Scientist"
ran a front-page story saying
civilization much older
than we ever expected.
And so academia does
catch up eventually,
but it might take 20 years.
>>DAVID: Well, the Book of Enoch
doesn't appear in the Bible,
right?
Why do you think that
book was not canonized?
Is there possibly a reason?
Do you think these fallen
angels and their descendants
might still be around
somehow and wouldn't
want to be found out?
>>COLLINS: I think that the
concepts of the Book of Enoch,
being that humanity
trafficked with fallen angels,
was something that was abhorrent
to the early Christian church,
anathema, quite literally.
And for this reason,
when they came
to put together the
combined volume that we know
today as the Old
Testament, that they looked
at the Book of Enoch,
which could easily
have been in there-- I
mean, it's a very old text--
and they said, look, we
don't want this sort of stuff
in there.
We don't want people
knowing about the idea
that we may have been
trafficking with these angels,
with these giants, with
these creatures that
seem to be able to
take on corporeal form
and become extremely
unheavenly in their nature
by having sex with mortal women.
We don't want this in there.
So books like that and
the accompanying volume,
which was known as the
Book of Giants, which
is the extended story, which
is the story of the Nephilim
themselves, or
those that survived
the initial infanticide,
these were just taken
and removed and destroyed.
And in fact, we didn't have a
full copy of the Book of Enoch
until the 18th century,
when a Scottish explorer
by the name of James
Bruce went to Ethiopia
and actually found three
copies and brought them back
to Europe, and they
were translated.
And it was such a shock
for European society
to read the Book of Enoch in
English or German or French
for the first time.
And it seriously
affected the development
of certain type of Christian
churches, who were very sort
of anti-demons, anti--
the devil, and hell,
and all the rest of it,
hellfire and brimstone.
This seriously affected them.
But that's another story.
>>DAVID: Well, thank you.
This is all the time we
have for this episode.
And hopefully, we'll
do another one.
So it's a real honor to be
able to talk to you today.
>>COLLINS: Thank you, David.
>>DAVID: Thank you, Andrew.
What an amazing body
of knowledge here.
And remember, as I
said at the beginning,
these Watchers apparently
were extraterrestrial beings.
And the interesting
part is that they
may very well have colonized
our planet in the past.
And this Atlantean
catastrophe that,
according to Graham Hancock
happened over 12,000 years ago,
wiped out most of them.
The legend of the Garden
of Eden may actually
be that the positive
beings, called the Elohim,
seeded a humanity here on
Earth that was distinctly
indigenous to our planet.
And they actually drove
off these Watchers,
who may very well have
been reptilian beings.
Now notice, as crazy
as this sounds,
he did say that they appeared
to have serpent-like faces,
penetrating eyes.
My insiders have said that
these people do appear
to be reptilian, and
their children actually
became these giants.
They're hybrids, and
they're very tall people.
They have elongated skulls,
all that kind of stuff.
So this is pretty wild
and crazy stuff here.
I understand that.
You kind of have to suspend
disbelief a little bit.
But remember, there's very
solid data about this.
And Gobekli Tepe, this place
that has 23 or 24 stone
circles like
Stonehenge, does appear
to be the cradle of our modern
civilization, the place where
modern humans were actually
created in the so-called Adam
and Eve saga.
It probably wasn't
just two people.
But it may very well be that
a genetically-engineered new
humanity was created there
and nurtured from this place,
and it has now spread out
across the entire planet.
So coming up next
time, we're going
to have our second round of
interviews with Graham Hancock.
And this is where we start
to get into a much broader
discussion beyond just the
original Atlantean catastrophe.
We get into such things as
the Ark of the Covenant, which
appears to have been a
super-weapon developed
by extraterrestrial life.
We also talk about the
stone heads of the Olmecs.
This is very
bizarre, huge stones
that we see in Mesoamerica.
That and much more coming up in
our next interview with Graham
Hancock here on "Disclosure."
I'm your host David Wilcock,
and I thank you for watching.
[MUSIC PLAYING]